If you twist yourself into being
something that you think other people
might want you to be, they might end up
liking you, but they're never going to
get to love the real you because you're
not giving them the chance. And that is
a deeply stressful way to live. In this
video, I sit down with a woman and we
discuss the stress of not being yourself
and the freedom that lies on the other
side. And along the way, you'll be
invited to do some experiments.
I guarantee you right now, there are
dozens of people judging you. Right in
this moment, you are being judged.
People are thinking bad thoughts about
you right now and me. It's happening.
Somebody might be watching this. At some
point in the future, they're going to be
thinking bad thoughts about me. They're
going to think that I'm an or
I'm an idiot or I'm full of crap and
they're going to think the same thing
about you. Somebody is currently
thinking the same thing about you. There
is no possible way you can control your
reputation.
There's no way you can stop the judgment
of others. There's no way that you can
make it so that everybody loves and
adores you.
Let's learn what I'm talking about
deeply in our bodies. Now, so I want you
to close your eyes and you're going to
just do this little experiment that's
going to teach you so much about trying
to control your reputation.
All right, close your eyes, get
comfortable, and I want you to imagine
you have a friend, one of your good
friends,
and they're speaking their truth.
They're saying something that's a little
difficult, a little scary, and they're
speaking their truth,
and it turns out to be something that
you judge. And so, you make a judgmental
face.
You cross your arms.
You actually judge them for a moment
and your friend notices this and changes
what they're saying.
They try to be different to please you.
What do you think of them? How do you
feel about them in that moment?
Okay, shake that off.
Take a deep breath.
Close your eyes again.
And now I want you to imagine a very
similar scenario.
That same friend is in front of you.
That same friend is telling you
something that's a little vulnerable,
deeply true for them, something that's
absolutely their truth.
And again, you judge them. Again, you
cross your arms. You make a judgmental
face. You have a judgmental thought. But
this time, your friend notices
but doesn't change their behavior at
all.
They're not at all bothered by your
judgment.
They don't try to control it.
They just keep saying the thing that's
true for them that's important.
Maybe they even look at you and
acknowledge that you're judgmental, but
that's nothing that they need to deal
with or contend with or change.
They just keep on being true to
themselves.
What do you think of them now?
How does that land in your body?
So when somebody's judging you,
how do you want them to feel about you?
The way that you did when they changed
for you or the way that you did when
they were consistent with themselves.
So many people are spending so much time
trying to maintain their reputation. And
there's really only two ways to do that.
The first one is you say to yourself,
"This is how I want to be seen in the
world, and I'm going to do X, Y, and Z
so that everybody sees me that way." And
it doesn't work. They don't see you that
way.
You You say, "Oh, I'm going to drive a
Porsche so that everybody thinks I'm
powerful." And half the people think you
just have a small set of genitalia
because you're driving a Porsche.
There's just no way around it. So,
that's one way you can do it. The other
way is you can say I am going to be
myself unapologetically.
I'm not going to worry about my
reputation.
And then you get a reputation and it's
really easy to maintain because all you
have to do is be yourself.
There's this bonus thing to it. One of
the reasons that I love being on Twitter
or YouTube is because people make fun of
me, right? That's that's part of the
culture of all social media. They, you
know, who's this or I think I
got nailed once by a guy named Lurker
Mclurkface I think is what his name was
which I loved and he was giving me crap
and it's this way that I get to like see
how my identity is held because if it
offends me oh right here this is a
limitation of the way that I see myself
this is some place that I'm still
sensitive this is some place that I
think is still important I love finding
places where I can get triggered so I
can find the freedom on the other side
of that trigger.
And if I'm maintaining my identity that
like I'm doing just the opposite. I'm
not getting any of that freedom.
And maintaining that identity is so
stressful because it's always your our
identity is always going to be taken
away from us. And you see this in the
news all the time. Like which which
superstar that everybody loved did they
keep on loving a decade later or two
decades later or three decades later?
They all became somewhere. They
all, you know, fell from grace. They all
fell off the pedestal. We all do that
and we're all being judged right now. It
is a race you cannot win. It is a game
you cannot play and therefore it is
incredibly stressful.
So, here's a little experiment you can
run
that's going to help you figure out how
to react to other people's judgments.
So, make yourself comfortable.
Take a breath.
Really get in touch with your body.
Feel from the very bottom of your feet
to the very top of your head.
And I want you to imagine
all the people who have ever judged you.
That most likely is every friend,
every family member.
Countless people on the street, every
co-orker has at one point judged you.
Some of them thought you were too ugly.
Some of them thought you were too
pretty. Some of them thought you were
too smart. Some of them thought you
weren't smart enough.
Some of them thought you were not
emotional enough. Some of them thought
you were too emotional.
Some of them thought you were too loud.
Some of them thought you were too quiet.
But just imagine all of those people and
all those millions of times you've been
judged.
And I want you to feel the difference
of what happens in your system when you
close your heart to them and you open
your heart to them.
So imagine all those people
and feel what it's like to defend
yourself.
You can literally say, "No, your
judgments aren't true."
You can say it out loud or to yourself.
You can build a nice piece of armor
that makes all those judgments just
bounce off.
Feel
what that's like in your body to defend
yourself against all of those judgments.
Great. Take a deep breath. Shake it off.
Close your eyes again.
Get yourself comfortable. And again,
imagine all those people who have judged
you, which is basically every person
you've ever known
and a whole bunch of people you haven't
known.
Just imagine them. And this time, see
what it's like to do the exact opposite
of defending yourself.
Be completely open. It doesn't mean you
have to believe.
Doesn't mean you have to agree with
their judgments.
But the job is to just not defend
yourself. To be open, to be openhearted.
In fact, you can just put some attention
into your heart. Maybe even put your
hand on your heart.
And think of all those people with no
defense.
And feel what it's like to be in your
body when you do not defend against the
judgment.
Which of these two things was most
comfortable? Which of these two things
made you most alive
when you defended against the judgments?
or when you stayed open.
I remember this moment where
early 30s I was looking for a job and I
was doing job interviews and I was
getting rejection after rejection after
rejection
and I kept on trying to game it like I
kept on thinking what do they want from
me and how can I be that person so that
they
they that they you know hire me and uh
and every time I got rejected it hurt
but I started to notice it hurt for two
reasons. The first reason was that I got
rejected. But the second thing is I
rejected myself
that I actually had
said I'm I I don't trust myself. I don't
trust being myself to get accepted. So I
had rejected myself first.
And that rejection was far more painful
than the rejection of others.
But what I also noticed is that there
was another pain which is that I was
trying to game it. and I'm trying to
game something that I have like no idea
how to game. So, I'm going into these
job interviews
and I'm looking at this person and I've
thought through what all the things I'm
going to say before I get there, but I
don't know what they want to hear. They
might want a psy. I don't know if that's
what they want. They might want a super
capable person. They might just want
somebody who's subservient. I don't know
what they want.
And yet, I think they do. And so I'm I'm
changing myself to to give them
something that I don't even know that I
want. So there's a tremendous amount of
stress in just trying to play that kind
of 3D chess and it's unwinable
because what they want might be
determined by how much coffee they had
that day. I just can't win that game. So
I'm stressed because I'm rejecting
myself. I'm stressed because I am trying
to play a game that I can't play or I
can't win. Both of those two things are
super stressful.
So, the thing about it is that if you're
trying to prove your value,
it is in it's it's it's stressful. But
the reason that it's stressful is
because it's it's not in alignment with
reality.
What does a baby have to do to be
valuable?
What does a three-year-old have to do to
be valuable?
Now, some people are going to look at
that three-year-old and they're going to
be say annoying. And some people are
going to look at the three-year-old and
they're going to be like, ah, cutest
three-year-old ever.
But when you ask the question, what does
a three-year-old have to do to be
valuable? There's there's no answer.
There's
the idea that you have to do something
to be valuable is something that so many
of us, especially in the West, got in
the way that we were brought up. That we
had to do a certain amount, do enough
chores, we had to get enough grades, get
good enough grades, get to college, all
this stuff so that we could be valuable,
so that we could get love. And if we
didn't do them, then we didn't get love.
And so all of a sudden we thought, "Oh,
if if we
can do enough stuff, we'll be loved."
And it doesn't work.
There's no way that how much you produce
or what you do for other people is going
to get you more or less love. And if you
say it that way, people immediately are,
"Wait, no, that's that can't be true. If
I don't do things for people, they won't
love me." If you're doing things for
people to get them to love you, they're
not loving you anyways. It's
transaction. It's a It's like saying
giving somebody a $100
to love you. It's not love. That's
prostitution.
So,
so there's this idea that if we do a
certain amount of stuff and so then you
have to turn that around. And if you
turn that around, you say, "Okay, what
if I'm just intrinsically valuable? I
I'm the same as the baby.
I'm in. You can feel the stress melt
away just in the thought process. Just
the thought experiment of what if I'm
intrinsically valuable.
Here is a great experiment on earning
love.
You're going to enjoy this one. So,
close your eyes, get yourself real
comfortable, stretch a little bit,
take a deep breath,
and I want you to just think about the
thing that you love the most in the
world. The thing that gives you the warm
and fuzzies just by thinking about it.
Maybe it's your dog. Maybe it's your
kid. Maybe it was your kid as an infant.
Maybe it's a cousin or a niece or a
nephew or
a husband, but just something, someone,
some animal that just makes you go gooey
inside.
And I want you to feel all the love that
you have for that. All the love.
I want you to let it all in your body
all the way. tip down, fingertips, toe
tips, top of the head. Just h just bask
in that love
for that person or animal.
Once you've got it, then I want you to
take all that love and turn it towards
yourself.
Put all that love towards yourself.
All that love that was coming from you
is still coming from you and it's just
going back to you.
Feel it in every cell in your body.
And now the question,
what did you need to do to deserve that?
As soon as you have to be valuable, then
there's a should in the doing. And then
you're not doing the things that
actually make you feel good. You're
doing the things that you think somebody
else will approve of you if you do. And
this is why if you go into a
corporation,
I used to do this. I used to go in to
work on culture, but I would go in maybe
like three levels down in an
organization. I refuse to do that now. I
will only work with the CEOs of
organizations or I won't go into a
company because what I noticed was this
level was worried about what the next
level would think and was trying to
manage it. But they didn't really
actually know what the next level
thought because they needed to be
valuable. And then this level did the
same thing and then this level did the
same thing. So by the time I got to the
CEO, what that CEO wanted compared to
what everybody thought their bosses
wanted or what the CEO wanted were
completely different things. They were
just trying to be valuable. I've sat
around team meetings
where people are asking questions not
because they care, not because it's
going to move the business forward. It's
because they want to be seen as valuable
by asking good questions.
None of this gets the job done. None of
it gets the job done inside of us.
Everybody can think you are valuable and
you can still be miserable.
It's such a huge cause of stress and
it's such an easy thing to see through
when you ask yourself, what do I have to
be valuable to myself?
Like what's required of you right in
this moment to be valuable to yourself
in this moment?
And what you'll notice is it's not a
doing that comes up, it's an undoing. If
you found this video helpful, please
subscribe. And if you want more tools
for reducing stress, you can go here or
click on the link below.